# WikipediaITHS
This is a group project in the Database course at ITHS.

## Set-up required before running this application
The project contains a pre-filled database. Set up your database by running the provided sql-script.
One must connect to the database before using this application. It can be done in the following manner:

Go to Project --> src --> main --> resources --> application.properties

Enter username and password to connect with the database. This application can be used either in IntelliJ or 
Command Terminal.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
## Instructions to run this application
ITHPedia is a Java-application which keeps track of the Articles (written by users) in an organisation.
It has an `Admin` with the following credentials.

Username: 
```bat 
Anslem
```
Password:
```bat 
Anslem1234
```
Few of the many privileges enjoyed by an Admin: 
* Adding/removing/updating a user 
* Searching/reading/reserving an article
* Reviewing an article before publishing

While the user apart from changing his/her credentials, can write an article & edit it.

This application is created to promote online reading of articles in an organisation, to reduce paper-consumption.
So, while it is highly promoted to read the articles online, this application also allows to print max 3 hard-copies
(pdf) of a specific article.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
## Ways to read an article
* Read online
* Reserve a hard-copy
* Order a personal hard-copy

### Read online
Every article can be read online. It shows most of the details including the number of times the article has been read
online.

### Reserve a hard-copy
However, if an article is lengthy or one is not comfortable with online reading, it is even possible to reserve a 
hard-copy of that article. Since a maximum of 3 hard-copies are generated by the system, if all the three hard-copies
are already reserved by other users, one gets to wait in a queue till one of the borrowed copies is returned to the 
system. Then it automatically gets reserved against the first person in queue for that article.

Right now, an article can be borrowed for 2 weeks.

### Order a personal hard-copy
Even scenarios where one wants to order a personal hard-copy are possible. This means that the hard-copy would not be 
returned back to the system. 

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
## Extra info that may come handy for quick-starting this application:

### Login info user-1

*Username:*
```bat 
Dennis
```
*Password:*
```bat 
Dennis1234
```

### Login info user-2

*Username:*
```bat 
Svea1
```
*Password:*
```bat 
Svea1234
```

### Searching an article by title
 *Article 1:*
```bat 
How Emma Stone found her ‘most joyous role’ in ‘Poor Things’
```
*Article 2:*
```bat 
The James Webb telescope took some stunning images in 2023
```
*Article 3:*
```bat 
6 bean dip recipes, including cheesy, spicy and sweet
```
*Article 4:*
```bat 
Why cooking food in stoneware is a healthy practice
```
### Searching an article by its author
#### Author 1

*Firstname:*
```bat 
Dennis
```
*Lastname:*
```bat 
Todd
```

#### Author 2:

*Firstname:*
```bat 
Svea
```
*Lastname:*
```bat 
Oster
```
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------